For this project, the fictional client needed an app developed which would enable users to track events. Users would be able to enter information about an event and be capable of editing and deleting these events. Additionally, the app needed to support multiple users and ensure that one user does not have visibility to another user’s events.

For this course, we were tasked with learning how to develop android apps. For this reason, the database we implemented, including authentication logic, was housed on the local device.

I designed an app with three screens: A login screen, an event viewing screen, and a settings screen. One of my interpretations of user need was the ability to quickly add, edit, or delete an event within thirty seconds. My reasoning is that it would allow users to open the app during a conversation, input the data, and close it without disrupting the conversation. Because I was prioritizing speed of use, I wanted to make the user interface simple and intuitive, so I added edit and delete functionality within the event viewing screen rather than implementing a different one.

The state of the code does not represent a finished project which is intended to pass rigorous functionality and security tests, however its basic functionality was verified through five emulated and physical medium-sized devices each running a recent version of Android. An opportunity for improvement on this application would be implementing unit tests, running vulnerability assessments, testing on a wider range of devices, and extensive functionality testing.

For the first app I have written, I feel that with a little more work this could be turned into a functional app that I would use. Specifically, I would remove the user authentication component and make this into an app which functions as a simple to-do list. I really like the idea of a minimalistic interface allowing users to enter and organize their ideas in a minimum amount of time. I would like to have a better implementation of reminder messages, tweak the user interface, and add out-of-app functionality such as a widget or a shortcut.
